## Automated ELK Stack Deployment

The files in this repository were used to configure the network depicted below.


 C:\Users\Topbruv\Downloads\ElkReadme.drawio](Images/diagram_filename.png)

These files have been tested and used to generate a live ELK deployment on Azure. They can be used to either recreate the entire deployment pictured above. Alternatively, select portions of the __ansible___ file may be used to install only certain pieces of it, such as Filebeat.


This document contains the following details:
- Description of the Topology
- Access Policies
- ELK Configuration
  - Beats in Use
  - Machines Being Monitored
- How to Use the Ansible Build
- Bugs/Troubleshooting


### Description of the Topology

The main purpose of this network is to expose a load-balanced and monitored instance of DVWA, the D*mn Vulnerable Web Application.

Load balancing ensures that the application will be highly _efficient____, in addition to restricting _traffic____ to the network.
- _Load balancers help with the flow of traffic to each virtual machine. Jumpboxes have an advantage because they securly connect from your machine to the virtual machines. No need for a public IP addresses.

Integrating an ELK server allows users to easily monitor the vulnerable VMs for changes to the _user____ and system _logs____.
- _Filebeat is used to collect log files from very specific files, such as logs generated by Apache, Microsoft Azure tools, the Nginx web server, or MySQl databases. 
- _Metricbeat records and collects data about Elasticsearch and ship it to the monitoring clusters.

The configuration details of each machine may be found below.
_Note: Use the [Markdown Table Generator](http://www.tablesgenerator.com/markdown_tables) to add/remove values from the table_.

| Name     | Function | IP Address | Operating System |
|----------|----------|------------|------------------|
| Jump Box | Gateway  | 10.0.0.1   | Linux            |
| DVWA-VM1 | VM       | 10.0.0.15  | Linux            |
| DVWA-VM2 | VM       | 10.0.0.16  | Linux            |
| Elkstack | LogAggre | 10.1.0.4   | Linux            |

### Access Policies

The machines on the internal network are not exposed to the public Internet. 

Only the _local____ machine can accept connections from the Internet. Access to this machine is only allowed from the following IP addresses:
- JteamJumpbox-ip

Machines within the network can only be accessed by _SSH____.
-  Jumpbox machine allowed access into Elk machine via 10.0.1.4

A summary of the access policies in place can be found in the table below.

| Name     | Publicly Accessible | Allowed IP Addresses |
|----------|---------------------|----------------------|
| Jump Box | Yes                | 10.0.0.1 10.0.0.2    |
| DVWA1&2  | yes                | 10.0.0.15 10.0.0.16  |
|  Elk     | yes                |  10.1.0.4            |

### Elk Configuration

Ansible was used to automate configuration of the ELK machine. No configuration was performed manually, which is advantageous because...
- In order to setup a machine and get all the programs needed it would take a long time if not automated and would also have a higher chance of error during configuration.

The playbook implements the following tasks:
- Install Docker and then download image
- edit the Ansible hosts yamal file to connect to server
- Execute .yml file and deploy the stack

### Target Machines & Beats
This ELK server is configured to monitor the following machines:
- 104.42.10.35,13.64.101.127
We have installed the following Beats on these machines:
- _Filebeat and Metricbeat
These Beats allow us to collect the following information from each machine:
-Filebeat monitors the log files or locations that you specify, collects log events, and forwards them either to Elasticsearch or Logstash for indexing. 
-Metricbeat takes the metrics and statistics that it collects and ships them to the output that you specify, such as Elasticsearch or Logstash.

### Using the Playbook
In order to use the playbook, you will need to have an Ansible control node already configured. Assuming you have such a control node provisioned: 

SSH into the control node and follow the steps below:
- Copy the _yaml____ file to __vm's___.
- Update the _yaml____ file to include IP address
- Run the playbook, and navigate to _web browser___ to check that the installation worked as expected.


- _Which file is the playbook? filebeat-playbook.yml 
Where do you copy it?_ The vm's
- _Which file do you update to make Ansible run the playbook on a specific machine?Hosts file How do I specify which machine to install the ELK server on versus which to install Filebeat on?_Elk server is a separate vm and Filebeat is on the jumpbox that has ansible in it.
- _Which URL do you navigate to in order to check that the ELK server is running?Your elk stack IP: with the port

_As a **Bonus**, provide the specific commands the user will need to run to download the playbook, update the files, etc.
ansible-playbook elkinstall.yml, nano ansible-playbook, nano hosts,

### Troubleshooting/Bugs Encountered
Security rule edits for DVWA VM's, Kibana, etc.
SSH keys and making sure they are in right location with public keys saved.
Editing playbooks for syntax errors. 
